all right welcome everyone to this
week's IP LD weekly call
it's November the 25th 2019 in this
every week we go through the stuff that
we've done last week and what interview
ending talked about any open discussions
that we might have so I stopped myself
so I actually can't recall what I did
since the last meetings this was a while
ago um but the important thing is that
I'm now working 100% on FICO until the
test at launch but while doing this they
saw some IP related stuff that I will
work on and the background kind of so I
was taught him those meetings and also
he had do code reviews and so on my
colleague reviews might not be as fast
as normally but I was yeah that's
basically all I have and next up is the
rod right so I've got more done as you
guys last week I don't have as much to
show for it but I will do in the next
style too I just mainly been focusing on
this browser testing thing and made
really good headway I have a tool that
I'm trubbish that just makes the whole
process of he I've got I've got a
JavaScript library I want to know that
it works in the browser that process
makes it easier
so I'll try and publish that today or
tomorrow and and it's it'll be something
to eat a rate on as well to uh bridge
and explore ESM and other things but
it's a it's a it's a basic focused use
case tool that isn't dependency heavy
yeah anyway that's that's mainly what
I've been doing I've done a little bit
of sea ball pausing stuff but it's
mainly been focused on browser testing
which has been very educational let's
say and that's really all I have to
report cool and so I don't have time to
a report from engineering stuff this
week because it was a lot of humans
things in the last week but one piece of
good news is I got to roam the the ideas
that I'm calling the rocker pattern of
design from memory allocation avoidance
in the builders in the cogent past Hanna
and for example among a couple other
people but we didn't find any obvious
showstoppers and running over that
design for a while and I think that's
like kind of the best feedback that I
can possibly get is that there's nothing
obviously wrong convinced and we didn't
come up with any obvious improvements I
did that had fewer drawbacks so I think
some of those ideas and I talked about
the last time we were all together
probably going to move forward into
implementation now and hopefully we
continue if I know showstoppers from the
phone and talking to a bunch yeah I was
wondering whether that is is that the
one that is that will do different
allocation and building for encoding
versus decoding like where you have to
pre allocate the whole thing and then
you do the internal bits yeah yeah and I
think it is the case
that the design is actually going to
manage to cling to the exactly current
note builder interface
it's just that many of the
implementations will have these kind of
nasty conditionals on them like if you
call this set of functions in this order
then it's going to say know is sort of
working mmm
but we just yeah we failed to find any
better idea than that and it turns out
to generally be the case that you call
the limit order anyway
so really the rules I'm just gonna have
to come up with some really good
documentation around high level rules
that interface and what you are
definitely allowed to do and then make
sure that those rules are both documents
at end like that code is generally
written to those rules and and I think
also make sure that neither pathway gets
loosey-goosey about the minimum rules
like I wanted for example one thing that
could be done is when we're doing this
from memory sharing interface it could
be the case that it would actually make
things visible even if you never called
the set method because you had gotten it
derived no build a relationship which is
already initializing the same memory but
I'm just going to add enough the
detection and logic around that to make
sure that it doesn't allow more
visibility and then the non memory
sharing implementation would to make
sure that people don't build things that
are too sloppy and don't work with one
code it could be an interesting
documentation challenge yeah it's to
explain why you can only do certain
things in certain ways yep it's pretty
much gonna mean in practice lists only
support linear appending which is just
like so I'm kind of yeah it's not the
worst but it's a bit like so some of the
methods that are currently on there for
like set at arbitrary index I'm thinking
it might actually make more sense to
just drop support for those because if
that's going to end up being conditional
and twist even you might as well just
not have them if it's limited to a
single block anyway it's and
it is pretty rare didn't to do that just
copying the entire data structure could
offer you the same thing in the rare
case that you need it yeah na meaning
that they suck for advanced layouts it
is actually still a concern so it
advanced player through their own thing
though like advanced layout tab like
whatever can watch it than anything else
right and and yeah I had like what
you've got to worry about it I like the
micro optimizations layer it's just like
you know the common operations that
people are gonna do in a single block
right today so like I wouldn't want to
stop offering the interface method for a
setback in thigh right great but when
you do that in the implementation just
copy it if you don't want this if you it
like yeah just do a full copy in order
to get it out if you can't do the
operation any other way there are other
reasons that won't work but probably I
don't read it yeah explain it right now
I guess it turns out that that when
screw with the visibility model more
than yeah it's anyway the other thing
that I learned from the last week is
getting to talk to some other people
outside of the immediate group about
stuff the new Knox is really good I
don't know how often I can say that crap
so much better so did you get people to
read them well if you people read them I
like talked to a couple people that read
them or at least looked at them if they
were pretty happy good I think as good
as that stuff is though we are our next
direction for growth is basically more
smooth on ramps for people who aren't I
think at this point we've got the
documentation on schema stuff really
solid and the authoring guys they're
super good but now we're actually like
relatively sparse on basic data model
stuff and making sure that those have
examples and and then just generally the
entry point
like I don't know if you guys saw the
emails coming in from github but some
people in the wider community of jumped
in and said like what good what's what
is this homepage for us and I think we
knew that but maybe it's time to do
something about it at some point we need
to take ownership of the the website and
yeah do something sensible with it yeah
but yeah I did I did think that the next
task to tackle would be what is I feel t
what are we trying to solve talk about
the data model and and that and that
that would open up like if we could do
that well enough it would open up some
of the discussions that we keep on
having about the data model in its
restrictions I you know even that you
know fix UNIX fsv 51.5 thing and the int
maps came up and it's like oh okay you
know we're trying to constrain the data
model of it but what do I link to well
it'd be good to have some something
explaining at least more of the
philosophy you know in a digestible way
yeah that's a wish list and yeah that's
about all I learned this week cool next
one on the list is an icon yeah
notes and I've already forgotten them
yeah so does a lab weeks of not alone
happen last week so they're coming in
the next week I'm gonna be solidifying a
lot of it
that's wilt in that we've built in jazz
around I peel this scheme of and then
just taking a bunch of open datasets and
basically porting them into it and you
know writing lots of new schemas for
different data structures that come in
test out the whole model and and like I
can I want to make sure that I can at
least like import large data sets into
potato structures and back out again and
the last number the news from the 20
planning session was on UNIX the speech
you integration is getting delayed that
DFS folks just don't really have the
cycles to work
that in q1 some of the urgency around
that it's not there and at the same time
you know our test case for testing a lot
of the nut tests but our main use case
for kind of driving I feel these schemas
it's getting delayed so that's that kind
of led me to find some these opens test
case open data cases as well and use
those to solidify the stack in the
meantime yeah cool things and I forgot I
remember that last week I also talked
with Eric about how things work in go
IPL D and that basically helped me
because already for the replica headed
here that probably a we might not even
need sir day or yeah would work without
it or basically I come to the
realization that so there would be just
assuming more of another layer of
indirection so it isn't too bad to use
it it might still make sense the future
to kind of like have an adapter for
server supported formats as well but I
will probably just move on without
survey and use the Seaboard positively
yeah I had a quick top of Stephen about
that and we kind of realized it like
it's actually really easy for all the
stuff to support third a to one
direction only right like you can add
the sir date rates to all the itlp stuff
so it works like as goodness are they
can support even if we didn't use survey
as like the core thing yes but I tell
that wait this yeah I I so my plan
wasn't dead I tell D is supported by
certain but that we can use service
supported formats in IPL II if this
makes sense ah yes yeah so but yeah but
okay yeah but this might also be clear
that basically people could use any
format that is implement cycle D could
use service utilization would also be
nice in this rupiah SS please fit for
more cool and that's all I have and I
see we have someone you join this
meeting and to you might
to introduce yourself really quickly
your mic okay then that's fine
welcome welcome yet oh cool so if you
have any questions or something then you
can also feel free to put it on the chat
yeah so we can answer them is there
anything else on Origin anyone has
anything else to talk about
Erik what do you think your time frame
for the guy in the neck book what's in
the next month or two for do i purely
prime like what what do you see is the
roadmap and how quickly will you get
things done so I'm gonna take a couple
days off this week lest I burn out after
that so the whether or not this design
with Rackers on how to handle this
shared memory stuff will work has been a
question that had been bugging me and
was kind of a blocker for like quite
some time now I I think the answer is
like confidently yes this design works
now so I'm going to get back to banging
out in the next week and I don't know if
I have a super high res expectation of
when of how that's going to go I've
ended up kind of deferring that whole
set of problems and questions around the
maybe stuff as well because that turned
out to be entangled with all this so
that's gonna come back after that but a
lot of the other questions about native
typed go builder patterns the answer has
also turned out to be forced by this
memory layout stuff basically trying to
use helper strokes is non-viable
entirely it's all going to be
whoo and builder patterns because
there's just no other way to do it
correctly so that answers those
questions I don't know I guess at this
point there's lots of code banging out
to do and I hope most of the questions
are resolved except then maybe ones okay
so are you saying fluids gonna be the
only way to do this as far as I can
figure out yes okay some of the earlier
draft I was trying to make some like X
some strokes with exported fields that
would be a reasonable way to do builder
patterns and at this point I don't
actually see obvious ways to do that and
get the correct like memory efficiency
so it's just a quietly infuriating thing
okay and do we have do we have any any
guarantees at all on Hamlin's time for
reviewing any directly on this stuff or
is it simply only what file coin needs
actually not a graph sync makes it yeah
okay so the new grant the new grab
string stuff doesn't mean thism by far
coin by coin different technically used
so what why are we getting a nice time
step so it's a I don't think I can talk
directly to it but it's not it's not a
festive kiss it is like a very important
you space for ipfs a very important user
activist that needs that solve a problem
on unix recipe one or technically do 1.5
mil also adding some stuff yeah so we
don't we don't have any guarantee time
on this reviewing this stuff for like
the next person to start depending
critically on the go cogent yeah I don't
think there's any super strict deadlines
like I personally want it to be done so
I can go do something more fun that's
about it that's the only forcing
function I'm hoping that a lot of gets
done throughout December there will
probably be
left over in January I don't know how
much hopefully not much more than that
yeah I don't know it's I've been away
from the actual typing of it for quite a
while well we did another like team
stuff in the last week or so so I'm not
I don't know I don't have a good
estimate today all right anything else
it doesn't look like it then um I closed
this meeting for this week and hope to
see you all next week goodbye everyone
ciao goodbye